Okay, we're on. Could you give a biographical
background of your situation in Vietnam, such as
your outfit duration, when you were drafted,
etc.? Okay, I was drafted in, my name is Bob
Corbett, and I live in St. Paul. My dad is a veteran
of World War I and World War II, and I was drafted in
October of 68. And I ended up going through the
infantry school at Fort Benning and arriving in
Vietnam in early September of 1969. And I was
assigned to Charlie Company, 2nd of the 27th
Wolfhound, a unit inside the 25th Division. We
were headquartered at Cu Chi, and I spent most of my
time The first half of the year in the field with the
Charlie Company out near Hard Spot, Harris,
Firebase, Jackson, near the Cambodian border.
And the last half, the last portion, five months I
spent on top of the mountains that we bought then,
the Black Virgin just outside of Tainan, inside
Tainan Province. And that's significant because
it was the only elevation, the only relief spot in
the area, in that whole South Vietnam area. And so
it was used by strategic communications. And
messages that were broadcast from the Pentagon by
radio across Europe and retransmitted down
through Turkey came in to the mountains because
the rest of the area, as I said, was flat. And it was
kind of the key communication point. They were
relayed through a different series of steps to us,
and then we relayed them down to Saigon to the
military command headquarters. Okay, Bob? Yeah.
We'll get to more of that, the strategic and the
location, a little later on in the interview.
Okay. Just, let's see. Okay, so you were, you said
you were on the Cambodian border, is that correct?
Yeah. Okay, how old were you when you were over
there? I was 23 when I was drafted. Well, I guess I
was 23 when I was over there. Okay. And you were
there for, how long was the duration? 11 months. 11
months. And I know you were wounded. How long were
you in the field and then how long, I guess, on the
hill? I was wounded the first time in the field. I
had been there probably 45 days in the field, so
I've been in country. It must have been about the
first or second of November. And then the second
time was the 10th of September.
Okay. Now, what was your rank in... the people that
you were serving with, fighting with? I was an E-5,
a Bucs sergeant, and when I arrived there, and my
status was to be a squad sergeant, and after a
series of attritions, people that Zero set of
countries in a time that expired or were injured
and had to be fed back the wage. When I left, I was
acting. Okay. And how long were you the platoon
leader then?
It's probably three and a half weeks, almost a
month. Okay. Um, before we get into the Ho Chi Minh
Trail itself, um, I guess I'm going to hit you with
this objective question. I might throw one in
mixing with the objective. Before you went, right
prior to going to Nam, what was your attitude? I
mean, were you, let's say, maybe gun-ho, removed,
or how, what were you feeling? I wasn't done cold,
but yet I wasn't pacifistic about it. My feelings
were that we were there because the people who were
making the political decisions and the military
decisions thought it was in our best interest. and
i believed in the democratic process and uh
trusted that that that we were there for good
reason okay um okay let's move on to the ho chi minh
trail and please speak a little louder too okay um
in your initial briefings what were you told that
the ho chi minh trail was there have been so many
different descriptions of it from being just a
single path to wide enough areas of flat road where
two trucks could pass abreast and maybe petroleum
lines feeding into the battlefield and someone
suggested that even they he estimated that 90 000
troops traveled out a year to the nbn um what were
you told it was in your briefings before you were
there or were you told uh yeah we were we were told
that it was uh the main communication travel way of
troop supplies and information from North
Vietnam to South Vietnam. And that pretty much, as
you've described, is that at some point they were
able to drive trucks up and down it, and at other
points it was less well-defined and just an area
that infiltration occurred through. Okay. Now,
is this what you saw or is this what you were told?
This is what I was told. Okay. And how did that
compare to what you saw when you actually went out
there? Um, I, I know that, uh, the Highway 1 was
supposed to be, uh, the Ho Chi Minh Trail, and I was
on Highway 1, and, uh, I, I know that we pulled an
awful lot of ambushes that night, and, uh, that
traffic at night was prohibitive. That all seems
to me, uh... were required to be indoors during all
the hours of darkness,
and that anyone who was not indoors in the hours of
darkness was considered to be a North Vietnamese
or a Viet Cong. And I don't know, I never pulled the
ambush on the highway part, but I do know that down
at the southern end, closer to Cambodia and
Saigon, where Cambodia
is closest to Saigon, and it was just a trail. Okay.
And, okay, now Highway 1, that is in Vietnam,
correct? Correct. Okay. They've also described
it as, well, it overlaps into Cambodia, too. Now,
is that true, or what do you think? Yeah, it does. I
think that it was down in the area that we were in,
which was about 50 miles from Saigon, northwest of
Saigon, on the Cambodian border. It was not
Highway 1. Highway 1 ran somewhere. into Cambodia
and down into the Taigan. But the infiltration,
because of the heavy troop concentration, the
heavy American troop concentration, the
infiltration through the jungle and less
well-traveled groups. Okay. And does that
imply... Well, let's see. You went into Cambodia
also, correct? Correct. The trail was supposed to
be there, too. It depended when they would veer
into Vietnam and at what point. Is it pretty much
what you find there? A fairly well fortified
North Vietnamese position and evidence of
massive
troops. Anything else you want to say on that?
Well, just that prior to the Cambodian invasion,
during the 1970s, Our unit had been operating
along that border, and we were ordered not to go
into Cambodia. We were told that if we had traded to
Cambodia, we wouldn't be supported by our
artillery gunners. But that area was
reconnoitered by the military. five planes at
night using infrared sensing devices. And it was
also reconned to some degree by American burps,
long range patrols that would wander in to areas
where there had been sightings. Okay, so
at that time, you knew it was just a matter of time
before the invasion of Cambodia then. Is that
right? I didn't. I had hoped that that was the case,
but I didn't know that it was the case. I knew that
the entire time that I was there, and for the period
of time that the people who had been in my unit when I
arrived, who had been in countries for, say, even
11 months, they knew that there were Viet Congs in
North Carolina. troops
over there
that
used that area as a staging area, as a hospital
area, as a fire area, and that we weren't
authorized to get at them. And we didn't really
know that that is what was going to occur. We
thought that we were going over there, we were
going to be a small unit, we would draw their fire,
and then the commanders would request special
permission to send in gunships into Cambodia,
into these areas. But you've got to go in to rescue
these small units of Americans. That's what we
thought was going on. We hoped that we would be able
at some point to go in and have a more direct
confrontation because we thought it would
eliminate a lot of the problems that we
experienced on a day-to-day basis. Okay. Well,
then moving on to the strategy. What were your
orders and how were you ordered to stop the flow
specifically? Or have you pretty much covered
that with what you just said? Well, generally we
were on a circuit destroy mission. We would, if you
would start the day, say at 7 o'clock on any
morning, we would get ready and have chow and we'd
start to move out through the jungle. We'd spend
most of the afternoon until about 3, 3.30 in the
afternoon. moving through an area in the jungle
that had already been targeted by headquarters,
or we had wanted to go to an escape headquarters in
Google, to go into and look around. And our
objective was if we went in and looked around
today, we may want to come back that night or the
following night and set up an ambush because we
thought there was activity. And we would do that,
come back for the heat of the afternoon, try and be
back in the face of the environment. Generally
preparing ourselves, resting a little bit.
And... getting
ready
to
go out
on ambush patrol that night then that evening we
would either go to that area or if we wanted to be a
little more stealthy we'd go to another area that
we'd reconned today or a couple of days three days
prior and we set up an ambush along the trail
outside a village wherever we thought that it was
evident or wherever headquarters and
intelligence and we set up an ambush in hopes to
catch them coming through. Okay, and now this was
in Cambodia? This was in Vietnam. Okay, close to
the border? Close to the border. Okay, and to what
degree do you think this strategy worked? At
certain times it was fairly effective because it
was a big area to cover, and we were in blocking
towards... uh
attempting
to prevent the olympia from sending troops
through cambodia to the closest point to
Saigon, we were blocking that closest point of
Cambodia. And it depended, if we'd established a
pattern, they'd recognize that we were basically
setting up ambushes within a true five-mile area
along the border. It didn't take them very long.
They'd start going outside that area and
establishing their pipelines, moving their
troops and flying them. and
once we realized that they pretty much figured out
that we were ambushed in a particular area, and
that this other area was not being covered by any of
the American troops, and we pulled in there,
usually at that point, there would be an enormous
amount of contact for a couple days, and then
they'd figure out some other routes that would fly
without contact. Okay. Um, Bob, I'd like to pause
at this point and just rewind and make sure
everything's being recorded here, okay? Good.
Okay, um, Bob, I'll need you to talk a little
louder. This recording really is not coming
through too well. Okay, I'll try my best. Alright,
thank you. The enemy has often been described as
being everywhere and nowhere at the same time.
Now, was there anything that would let you know
whether the usual sniping harassment fire from
nowhere would remain just that, or was there
something that would tell you sometime that this
firepower from nowhere would soon be from
everywhere? You know, was there something that
you could let you know to differentiate between
the usual harassment, or maybe that you were going
to be in an engagement for a while? No, not really.
You know, a rifle shot in the night is a rifle shot.
And ordinarily, if you heard one and within three
or four seconds you just hear a barrage of them, it
pretty generally indicated that you were not up
against a large field unit because in those
instances where they surrounded us and fired on
us, it was a well-coordinated effort. At exactly
12 o'clock on one occasion, they tore into us. And I
heard one round, and within a night, probably less
than within a second, they opened up with machine
guns and mortars, and they were right on us. The
whole world switched to rock and roll, and
everything around us started to dance. Wow.
And... That's kind of how they were. They didn't
tie into you unless they were very confident that
they could destroy you so seriously damaged that
you weren't going to be real successful at any
retaliation. And then they'd move out of the area
before our gunship or artillery could pin them
down. That's pretty much the basic, well, Yeah, it
was. And, you know, in those instances where we
would see them coming, it was extremely effective
because we could either choose to hope that our
positions would be undetected and let them pass
through us. If, for example, since we operate
primarily in 8- or 10-net groups, if there were too
many of them, we didn't want to take that much of a
chance, say if we saw 40 or 50. Or it appears that the
way that they were coming through the wood line out
onto the rice paddies, that there may well be 40 or
50. We
would just let them go beyond us, be in radio
communication and have gunships and additional
troops ready and artillery. And then at some point
when we thought it was advantageous for us, we'd
call in the artillery and try and have the gunships
who pulled the horizon on them. And then maybe we'd
open up on the conditions that we thought we could
use. When we saw them, it was a good deal. When they
saw us, and I'm sure that they saw us a lot more than
we were ever aware of, when they saw
us, they didn't think they could handle us. They
just let us go. I'd like to move to the technology of
the war, but right before that, do you think that
you were well-equipped or maybe over-equipped to
get the job done? um in terms of having military
power we could we were probably
over equipped we could have gotten the job done
with less military power with with fewer m16s or
you know we didn't need more explosive weapons we
had we had uh very adequate weapons uh the
technological aspect was certainly on our side
compared to what they had we generally we
controlled the air And we had long range
artillery, which up north they had, but they
weren't able to set up very effectively down
south. And we probably had more sophisticated
communications, which would have played a key
role. OK. And specifically, did your platoon get
to seeing new technological innovations? Well,
we used the M16, which the Vietnam War started out
with the M14 as the primary weapon. The M16 wasn't
adopted by the military until some point after
Vietnam had been going on for a couple of years. We
used the duper, which fires grenades that hit 50
meters. It was extremely effective. It was like a
big shot gun. It was called duper because when it
went off, it was a duper. Even that's what it
sounded like. They used whatever weapons
they could capture for us. They also had an
extremely effective AK. The AK is more of a
long-range weapon than the M4P. The M4P was
designed to be light, to be maneuverable, and to
quickly pump out. on a cyclical
rate of fire, if you hooked it up in such a way as you
would a machine gun, the M16 on automatic would
fire 800 to 850 rounds per minute, which is a very
fast rate of fire. And it's light, and it fires
smaller, and requires lighter ammunition. And
their AK, however, was more accurate over a
greater distance. Bob, on this recording, I'm
sure you're making sure that your... I guess your
mouth is in the best position for the receiver.
Well, I think so. Okay. Just to concentrate on
that, and maybe a little bit louder, too. Okay.
Okay. Went out on the trail, and I put that in
quotes. I really... Would you agree that there's
really no specific trail, but just a... a term for
the mass movement that was going on. I agree. Okay.
Okay, we went out on the trail. Were there any signs
of our other strategies that were being used on the
trail? For example, we had electronic sensors
and, of course, massive bombing from B-52s and
then defoliation from Agent Orange. Did you see
any signs of maybe these other strategies? Every
day, every day, we were constantly concerned with
booby traps. And the majority of the booby traps
were either mortars or grenades or artillery
rounds which did explode upon impact or were taken
from overran American units. and they were stuck
in such a way with a trip wire or a device, a grenade
would be placed underneath an artillery shell,
and O.P. started nosing around the artillery
shell and moved it. The lieutenant had pulled in
the grenade, and so the handle would flop loose,
and then the grenade would explode, and it would
cause the artillery shell to explode. You know,
those kind of ingenious things. Now, are you
saying those were American-made? I would say that
a majority of booby-trapped devices were
American-made. The North Vietnamese or the VCs
had rigged other things, too, so that they would
explode upon impact. Or when you happened to pull a
vine that was connected to the device, you could
pull the handle free from a grenade. In terms of the
B-52 and some of these other methods, there's an
argument saying that they in actuality were
ineffective in that they increased the will of the
people to resist. Now, was there any way that you
could elaborate on that if you were able to witness
that? Is that true? I don't know that they
increased the will of the people to resist. I think
they... that at various points it will seem to be
higher and lower. And I really don't know what
effect the B-52 had on Bouchard, other than that
perhaps the same effect that a Russian plane
cruising down our street might have on us, versus a
less visible presence. I don't know. Yeah, sort of
a terror factor. Yeah. Yeah. All right, well,
let's move on to the relationship with your fellow
men there. What do you think about the leadership?
Well, not really what do you think, but how were
they as far as competency, consistency, and their
concern for the troops? I think that in general the
leadership, the personnel who comprised the
leadership were probably extremely competent
people. I think that it's probably fairly well
discussed and or even documented that there was a
stifling effect. The military hierarchy acted in
such a way as to stifle true and valid observations
from the lower ranks from the people actually out
the grunts during the day-to-day combat they
stifled uh and changed and modified the
information that these people put in and
discouraged them from uh from those above them to
insist on the truth they weren't able to get the
truth across to the elite And I think the leaders
wanted the troops who could best fight the war or do
anything, exist on a day-to-day basis with the
troops. Well, we don't want Colonel so-and-so to
think that we're not performing well, so we're
going to tell him this or we're going to tell him
that because that's what he wants to hear. There
are many examples of people in leadership
positions who did not do that, but there does seem
to be some kind of generalization that's true.
That sounds like the recent Westmoreland case. I
think that's probably the... the most verified
account of stifling gas. And it hurt us all. It hurt
us all. Because when I arrived there in September
of 1969, two or three weeks after I was there, I
began to believe that this was not working. that
what I read in Stars and Stripes was a military
newspaper which was published on a daily basis in
Vietnam, and we would occasionally get out in the
fields about a week late and maybe two or three a
week. What they told us was going on, you begin to
distrust it. You begin to know that a lot of it was
propaganda. You resented the fact that you, the
grunt, actually conducted the war, had to sort
through this information and wonder, is this true
or is that true? Because you would see instances of
actions that you were involved in that you didn't
consider the reporting to be true. Yeah. Wow. And,
well, the overall effect on morale? Yeah, I think
that the overall effect of the... You know, the...
what are you going to do, send me to Nam attitude. It
doesn't make any difference attitude. Kind of
came out because we conducted the war with our
hands tied while we stocked it up with records,
which eventually, which prevented us from
winning the war. What about You refer to doctoring
up the records. In Phil Caputo's book, A Rumor of
War, he talks about the whole idea of body count,
that the upper echelons wanted to see results. and
not necessarily the accurate one. How do you
measure a war that is really hard to measure? This
wasn't a linear war. There wasn't one solid front.
And the whole emphasis on body count, wasn't that
sort of demoralizing? Yeah, I think it was. I think
the only way you can really picture a war is the
morale of the troops in the area. If you get down
with the grunts, what do you think? Are you keeping
this area clean? What's your attitude? Are you
going out and stopping the infiltration? Are you
preventing the VT and the communists from
harassing the people in the villages? When you go
to the villages, when you're passing through the
peasants, are they happy to see you? uh that gives
you an idea of uh of who's in charge who's in power
but uh simply saying well my predecessor here had
uh they had uh five uh five an average of five feet
killed per night in this area and uh therefore i as
battalion commander had better At best, top that,
I'd better have an average of six. You know, that
kind of attitude doesn't clearly indicate to
anyone. All it does is say, yeah, gee, we're doing
better than we were before, and therefore we must
be winning. And as a result, there's very little
serious discussion entertained by higher-ups as
to how to more effectively conduct a war. And that
hurt me. Well, it's almost all these little
factors that are mutually reciprocating and
reinforcing to get this whole cycle, which seems
to have a pretty bad effect from what you're
saying. That's a good point. They did feed into
each other, and they were self-fulfilling
processes. Once you start lying about how well
you're doing in one particular area... And
another battalion commander decides that he
better lie to come up with better figures because
somebody he's competing with for the rank of
colonel, when someone is doing his job in another
area, is claiming to do it better by these methods.
Pretty soon, nobody really knows what the truth
is, and I'm afraid that to a large measure that
happens. You know, being squad leader, as you were
for some while, that made you probably more aware
of some of the command decisions and choice
decisions. Is there anything that sticks out or
stuck out in your mind at the time as just being
totally ridiculous and, you know, you would have
recommended something else or not? Well, I can
think of many instances where we would be briefed
by the, when I first came in country, we'd be
briefed by the platoon leader who had just come
from a briefing by the captain who had just been
listening to the radio and the battalion
commander had been telling him what his mission
for the day is or what his mission for the
weekend, like what areas we moved to, the word
eventually came on down to us that we would be
telling the men that we would be going to this
location, these forts, and on the map setting up an
ambush. And we may have known, we may have been by
that area before. We may have known that where they
were putting us was into an indefensible
position, or we could better spend our time over
here. But the... The response when we would say, we
don't want to go here, this is a bad position
because with only 10 of us, we can't defend it. It's
open for this area. We've had, you know, we know,
we've had contact before. Intelligence says that
there's this large unit, you know, of BSBs, Viet
Cong, only two miles away over here, and we know
that they're probably going to infiltrate
through this area. We should really have a company
or at least a platoon in this area. When
we say those kind of things, generally the
response was, these are what you're going to
start. You're in the military. This is the way it
goes. You will do this. Are you saying that at times
you were sent out less than a platoon strength? We
generally were sent out less than platoon
strength. We generally went out in 8 to 10 man
units. Wow. You must have been correlated
somewhere. Yeah. The platoon would be out in three
or four sections of eight to ten men. And we would
know where we were. We would know what frequency we
were at. And we would be at a certain distance from
each other so that our fire, if we had the fire, that
it wouldn't catch any of our pieces. and the
attempt
was to maximize,
make as thin a debris as possible over this area so
that when the fuel pump came in or out, we had the
greatest likelihood of making contact. And then
the theory was that once we made contact, we'd
assume that they had a larger unit, but we would be
able to move gunships
would
always be the first to reach us. And then, uh, uh,
following the gunships was the troop ships and
additional troops. Hmm. And, uh, then we'd rush in
larger troops that would set up behind them, and we
would try to catch them between our 10-man units
and the larger troops. Okay. Um, in your platoon,
how big was your platoon? Uh, we were, we probably
operated generally from 28 to 32 men. That is
somewhat understrength, isn't it? Well, it's
ideally equal to 40. But it was pretty much the
average. I doubt that we ever had over 32 in any
time. I wonder if Nixon had started his
decimization, excuse me, problem or solution,
did that have anything to do with the smaller
numbers or was it just because of lack of troops
overall? It
was because
of lack of troops overall. People were injured.
People would be wounded. People would develop
foot rots, would catch malaria, and they'd have to
go back into the rear and possibly went to the
hospital in Saigon or Tokyo, or else they were
going on leave, or their time in the country had
expired, or they would have come in to get out of the
field. so that we have a better job. Are you
familiar with the term bragging? Yes. Was that
evident? I know it increased as the anti-war
movement increased back on the home front, but was
that a present? Did you see that, or did that happen
while you were there? Any incidents? Well, I
really am not certain. There... A
little louder,
please. Mm-hmm. had
decided that
he knew everything about
the war and how to be a platoon leader before he
arrived there, and he wouldn't listen to any of the
troops who'd been around a while, the message was
given to him that that is not a healthy way to go. And
he was injured at one point, but it's not entirely
clear Whether it was Charlie's fire or us. Okay.
Within your platoon, Bob, was there an overriding
sense of camaraderie? Or was there more of a... Did
the soldiers tend to form groups, even, you know,
on the off-patrol duty time? There was, groups
were formed, but there was an overriding sense of
camaraderie. That cut through everything. You
knew that you had to be on your best terms, that you
had to trust everyone that was around you, and they
had to depend on you. And it was my experience that
that was by far and away the overriding attitude.
Did this transcend any of the perhaps racist
issues that were still a problem in the U.S. during
the time. Was there much racism that you saw within
the platoons and in the Army in general? Within the
Army in general, I thought there was a great deal of
racism. Within the platoons, within the company,
out in the field, I really can't think of an
incident where it was an issue. But when we came
back in to stand down after being out in the field
for about 52 days, there were some name-calling
and shoving based on race. Wow. But once back in
Tennessee, these were not between the members of a
similar platoon. They were between members of
different platoons. But out in the field, it never
surfaced, and in our platoon, it was never an issue
during the time I was there. Okay. Let's see here.
Now, you were sent after the Tet Offenses. That's
right. Okay, and you knew that the anti-war
movement was already in process, and the time you
left, was that any effect on the troops as far as
morale? Or did you even hear much of it once you were
out there, of the growing anti-war movement?
Well, we would hear about it because everyone, you
know, received a lot of letters. And my aunt, Tita,
had a subscription of the Minneapolis Star that
said, And
so about
once every 10 days or so, I would leave either 10
papers, and I'd read about it there. And the Stars
and Stripes, the military magazine, paper,
sailing paper in Vietnam, downplayed it. The
radio station downplayed it or brought up absurd
circumstances that would occur. It wasn't... To
me personally,
and to those in
my squad and platoon that I was closest to, I don't
really think we were demoralized exactly. I think
a lot of the general attitude was that we weren't
getting the job done. And the reason we weren't
getting the job done is because we couldn't go into
Cambodia. And
we couldn't go up north. If we could go up north, if
we wanted
to win the war, we could have bombed the geysers,
bombed the industrial centers, bombed the supply
of troops coming from North Vietnamese troops
coming down south. And we could have done it. It
would have been eradicating a great deal of North
Vietnamese and many more South Vietnamese. But we
could have won the war that way. I'm still sticking
with the morale theme. Do you think the whole
policy of search and destroy, with its
implication that eventually everyone was going
to have to assume that point position, do you
think, did that sort of have a negative effect in
itself on the troop morale? Just knowing that
you're out there mainly to draw fire, if you're out
there on the point. And hopefully you will survive
that and be able to fire back.
It did. It
did. But,
you know, it did because we knew that there existed
a large number of sanctuaries in Cambodia and
North Vietnam that we couldn't go after. And at the
point where we knew that we couldn't go after and
conduct the war, at that point it seemed so
treacherous and foolhardy for us to be there and
for the military to be using our bodies in this way
of drawing fire so that we could... We
gained
body count
when very few of the people in my platoon and no one
in my original squad believed that we would ever
win the war, that we would do anything other than,
we never believed that the South Vietnamese would
defend themselves against the North Vietnamese.
We didn't think they were capable. And we never
believed that anything other than withdrawal by
American forces would occur down the road. And
that was demoralizing because it seems foolish to
take the chance on risking our lives when our real
objective was not to win the war. Yeah, so that sign
is probably... the key morale demoralizer? I
think it was. I think it was the primary attitude of
most American GIs. Certainly of the American GIs
that I encountered. You mentioned the
Vietnamese. Now, did you fight alongside with
Arvin? We did. We had, it was called a sister
company of ours, who had a base about a quarter of a
mile away from our base. And because they would
indiscriminately get fire up, fire toward our
base, thinking that there were being seen between
our base and theirs. uh
we had to had to have them move farther away and uh it
was it was interesting because they had uh their
wives and uh some of their families that would live
with them in this state and uh they pulled they
seemed to pull very few ambush controls that night
aggressive
they wanted to be as close to us as they could they
did very little and when we we'd be out in the jungle
sometimes and we'd be able to watch them at a
distance across the clearing through a starlight
scope at night they'd be uh they'd be either
disoriented or unaware that we were there and uh
and should have been aware that we were there
because uh you know
They,
to a certain degree, I can appreciate their
attitude. They've been at war forever with most of
these people throughout their lifetimes. And war
was something that they were trying to survive.
And they weren't as aggressive as troops. They
weren't as dependable. And they didn't believe
that they would ever win the war. That if the world
was going to be won, it was going to be won by us. Do
you think they really cared? I don't know whether
they... I think... I mean, which side won? Yeah, I
don't know. That's... I don't know how to answer
that. Oh, well, yeah. I guess I should move on from
that anyway. That's a very good question. Okay.
Now, how about with your relationship with the
Vietnamese civilians? Did you encounter them
frequently? Can I answer the previous question by
saying that, yes, I think they cared, and they
wanted their side, our side, to win. But they
decided that from having been at war all their
life, that they were better off to be a survivor in a
communist regime than they were to be a dead
capitalist or dead in a more ideal situation.
Okay. Would you give me a brief on that last
question again? Sure. Okay. I want to move to your
relationship with the Vietnamese people
themselves, civilians in the area. Did you have
frequent encounters? We had frequent
encounters. Because
we would come up and
look through what were kind of like farmhouses,
their idea of farmhouses, particularly out
towards the border. There were few and far
between. We'd try to get information out of them.
Have you seen anyone? We would get someone in a
village, for example, a village of maybe 30 huts
where they farmed the immediate rice paddy area.
One or two would... would
say, the BC come here, they take our rights, they
came two nights
ago, they will come again tomorrow night. And we
would get information that way, and generally it
was very accurate. But I think that by and large,
because the BC would only have to make their
presence known about once every, you know,
periodically, once every couple of months,
they'd come in and they'd execute whoever it was
they thought was ratting them. and they had a more
effective hold over the Harkins mine to the BFB and
the South BFB troops who would come in
occasionally and probably terrorize it to a
degree too, but weren't able to protect it that
night. Okay, so I'm gonna take a pause here. I need
to flip the tape too. I'd like to get back to the
Harkins mine that you just mentioned. Okay. So
I'll shut this off and flip the tape. Okay.